The Vice President:
Hello everyone,
this is Joe Biden.
I want to wish you
all a Happy New Year.
I know this is the time
of year when we make
resolutions to take care
of our health, whether
it's joining a gym
or eating healthier.
But there's one thing you
can do right now that will
also make a big difference
in your health:
that is getting quality,
affordable health
insurance through the
Affordable Care Act.
Because of that law,
access to quality
health care
is improving.
Last year, almost 7
million people signed
up for health care
coverage under the new law
and paid their
premiums.
And in many cases the cost
of health care is less
than the cost of your cell
phone or your cable bill.
In addition, millions
more are getting the care
that they need
through Medicaid that
they weren't
getting before.
And because of the new
law, people who already
had health insurance are
also benefitting from
additional
protections.
For example, their
insurance companies
can't deny them coverage
because of pre-existing
conditions, like
asthma or diabetes.
And they're able to get --
for free -- preventive
services like mammograms
or blood pressure
screenings that their
doctors ordered for them,
saving them a
lot of money.
Everyone is beginning to
realize what millions
of you already
know -- the
Affordable Care
Act is working.
And we're just
getting started.
Because there are millions
more of you who can
get quality, affordable health
care if you sign up before
February 15th
of this year.
That's now through
February 15th.
Now if you don't have
insurance, you can
go to HealthCare.gov,
where you'll find a menu
of a bunch of different plans
and what each plan covers
and how much
each plan costs.
All you have to do
is just pick one.
The best one that fits
your family's health care
needs and your
family's budget.
If you don't want to go
to HealthCare.gov and you
want to talk to somebody
on the phone instead,
you can call, I'm going to
give you the number now,
you can call
1-800-318-2596.
From this moment on, you
can call any time of the
day, any day
of the week.
Phone lines are open 24
hours a day, 7 days a week.
And for folks listening
today whose family
and friends may
not speak English:
let them know that there
are translators available
in over 150 language to guide
them through the process.
And if you're not
comfortable going online
or speaking on the phone,
and you want to sit down
with an individual to help
you through this, you can
find out where
to go as well.
Because in every
community, at local
libraries or community
health centers, people
are there to help.
All you have to do is
go on HealthCare.gov,
type in where you live, and
you can find out exactly where
to go to sit down with
a person who will help
you walk through
the process.
But here's the really
important point
I want to make.
If you don't sign up by
February 15th of this year
-- with only a very few
exceptions -- if you don't
sign up by the 15th of
this year, you're going
to have to wait until 2016
to get health insurance
through the
Affordable Care Act.
And even those of
you who already have
health insurance through
the Affordable Care Act,
you can also go on
HealthCare.gov to find
a plan that might offer
more benefits or be more
affordable in
price for you.
You might even qualify for
additional help paying for
the insurance you choose
because your income
isn't what it
was last year.
Now I'm sure some of you
already heard from your
friends and neighbors
who've signed up for
health insurance under the
Affordable Care Act what
I hear all around
the country.
I hear it provides peace
of mind that someone you
love will be covered if
God-forbid something happens.
It provides security, so
if you have a bad strain
in your ankle or your back
and you don't have the
money to get treatment,
you can now get the
treatment rather than
wait, put it off,
and end up with a
chronic condition.
And it provides a lot
of freedom, and choice,
and opportunity -- so you
can switch jobs or move
to another city without the
fear that you'll lose out
on the health insurance
with the company
you now have
it with.
And what I'm hearing
most is how pleased
and excited people are
about how affordable it is.
An awful lot of people who
didn't think they could
or would find
quality, affordable
health insurance are actually
able to get assistance
from the government to
help them pay for their
health care plans
at a cheaper rate.
Let me give
you an example.
A family of four with an
income of around $95,000,
they can still get a
subsidy to lower their
health care premiums.
But maybe most
importantly, what I hear
is that we have finally
ended the debate in this
country of whether or
not health insurance
is a right or
a privilege.
We think everyone in
America has a right
to have adequate
health care insurance.
And the Affordable Care
Act gives them that right.
So sign up.
And spread the word.
Protect your health --
not only for your sake,
but for the sake of
your families.
Thanks for listening, and
Jill and I wish you again
a happy and
healthy New Year.
God bless you, and may
God protect our troops.